This project provides a REST API for managing course data, built using Node.js, Express, and MongoDB.

I've decided to expand my skills by incorporating MongoDB, Mocha, and Chai into my toolkit, tools I haven't used previously.

## API Endpoints

Below are the main endpoints of the API:

GET /api/courses: Fetches all courses.

POST /api/courses: Creates a new course with provided JSON payload.

DELETE /api/courses/:id: Deletes the course with the specified ID

## Getting Started

To run this project, you will need Node.js and npm installed on your computer. The project uses MongoDB as a database, which requires an active MongoDB connection.

1. Open the project in VS Code
2. Install the required dependencies: npm install

## Configuration

Put the below DATABASE_URI in a .env, .env.dev and .env.test files in the root directory to configure the environment variables.

DATABASE_URI = mongodb+srv://alexandrastraton1:StrAle2024@cluster0.vomctjz.mongodb.net/test

## Configuration problems

I tried to differentiate the production database from the test database in MongoDB, but I was unable to configure a separate test database within MongoDB Atlas due to lack of time. Consequently, the DATABASE_URI remains the same across all three configuration files. This setup was not my initial intention.

## Running the Application

To start the server, use: npm run dev

## Testing the API

Tests are written using Mocha and Chai and are located in the test directory.

To run all tests: npm test

## Testing the endpoints in Insomnia

I used insomnia to further test each endpoint, Postman can also be used.

## Testing for delete a course issue

When deleting a course in Insomnia, it's necessary to use the unique ID generated by the database rather than an externally supplied ID. In the provided example within example-programs.json, an ID is included, and I was unsure whether to keep it or not.

## Problems during testing

I found challenges with implementing comprehensive error handling due to time constraints, so I was unable to cover all possible errors.

When I integrated error handling into the application, I encountered issues with some tests failing. I was only able to implement one middleware specifically for handling 404 errors.

I had initially set up the before and after hooks within the "Courses API" test suite to manage database connections. However, I encountered issues with timeouts during the testing process. These timeouts were likely caused by delays in either establishing or closing the database connection within the time limits specified by the testing framework. I did not have time to fix this, so I decided to comment out these hooks.

Due to lack of time, I was also unable to test for delete.

## Need to do:

-Use a test database to seed and run tests
-Test for delete
-PATCH request
